# Setting up Anovos on AWS EMR

For large workloads, you can set up _Anovos_ on [AWS EMR](https://aws.amazon.com/emr/).

## Installing/ Downloading Anovos

Clone the Anovos repository on you local environment using command:

`git clone https://github.com/anovos/anovos.git`


After cloning, go to the anovos directory and execute the following command to clean and build the latest modules in dist folder:

`make clean build`

## Copy all required files into an S3 bucket

Copy the following files to [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/):

- `/anovos/dist/anovos.zip`
    -	This file contains all Anovos modules
    -	Zipped version is mandatory for running importing the modules as –py-files
- `/anovos/dist/data/income_dataset` (optional)
    -	This folder contains our demo dataset - income dataset.
- `/anovos/dist/main.py`
    -	This is sample script to show how different functions from Anovos module can be stitched together to create a workflow.
    -	The users can create their own workflow script by importing the necessary functions.
    -	This script takes input from a yaml configuration file
- `/anovos/dist/configs.yaml`
    -   This is the sample yaml configuration file that sets the argument for all functions.
    -   Update configs.yaml for all input & output s3 paths - Typically variables that have `_path` in its name such as final_report_path, file_path, appended_metric_path, output_path, etc..
    -   All other changes depend on the dataset used and modules to be run. 
- `/anovos/bin/aws_bootstrap_files/setup_on_aws_emr_5_30_and_above.sh`
    -   This shell script is used to install all required packages to run Anovos on EMR (bootstrapping).
    -   Also, Kindly copy the [requirements.txt](https://github.com/anovos/anovos/blob/main/requirements.txt) in the repo to an accessible s3 bucket.
    -   Edit the fist line in setup_on_aws_emr_5_30_and_above.sh before and then proceed to using it as a bootstrap file for AWS EMR.
- `/anovos/data/metric_dictionary.csv`
    -   This contains a static dictionary file for the different metrics generated by Anovos in the report.
    -   This helps generate the wiki tab about the different modules/submodules metrics in the final Anovos report.
- `/anovos/jars/histogrammar*.jar`\
    -   These jars are to make use external dependent libraries for Anovos.
    -   Specify and use the correct version 2.12 or 2.11 based on the Scala version in your environment.



AWS CLI Installation Instructions can be found [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)

AWS copy command:
`aws s3 cp --recursive  <local file path> <s3 path> --profile  <profile name>`


##  Create a cluster

-   Software Configuration 
    - Emr-5.33.0 
	- Hadoop-2.10.1 
	- Spark-2.4.7 
	- Hive-2.3.7 
    - TensorFlow 2.4.1

- Spark Submit Details
    - Deploy mode : `client`
    - Spark-submit options :
        --num-executors 1000  
        --executor-cores 4 
        --executor-memory 20g  
        --driver-memory 20G  
        --driver-cores 4  
        --conf spark.driver.maxResultSize=15g  
        --conf spark.yarn.am.memoryOverhead=1000m  
        --conf spark.executor.memoryOverhead=2000m  
        --conf spark.kryo.referenceTracking=false  
        --conf spark.network.timeout=18000s  
        --conf spark.executor.heartbeatInterval=12000s  
        --conf spark.dynamicAllocation.executorIdleTimeout=12000s  
        --conf spark.rpc.message.maxSize=1024  
        --conf spark.yarn.maxAppAttempts=1  
        --conf spark.speculation=false  
        --conf spark.kryoserializer.buffer.max=1024  
        --conf spark.executor.extraJavaOptions=-XX:+UseG1GC  
        --conf spark.driver.extraJavaOptions=-XX:+UseG1GC  
        --packages org.apache.spark:spark-avro_2.11:2.4.0  
        --jars /anovos/jars/histogrammar-sparksql_2.11-1.0.20.jar,/anovos/jars/histogrammar_2.11-1.0.20.jar  
        --py-files {s3_bucket}/anovos.zip 
        
        - When launching cluster need to make driver/worker node memory size is higher than total of configured one. For example, for the above config, there should be atleast than 20 + 2 = 22 GB per worker or driver. So user must select machine types with RAM around 26GB or more. Example machines - m3.2xlarge - 8 core, 30 GB.

        - The above histogram jars version and avro package version should follow scala version.

    - Application location - s3 path of main.py file  
    - Arguments for main.py file - s3://<s3-bucket>/configs.yaml emr

    - Final spark submit command example : 
    ```
    spark-submit --deploy-mode client --num-executors 1000 --executor-cores 4 --executor-memory 20g --driver-memory 20G --driver-cores 4 --conf spark.driver.maxResultSize=15g --conf spark.yarn.am.memoryOverhead=1000m --conf spark.executor.memoryOverhead=2000m --conf spark.kryo.referenceTracking=false --conf spark.network.timeout=18000s --conf spark.executor.heartbeatInterval=12000s --conf spark.dynamicAllocation.executorIdleTimeout=12000s --conf spark.rpc.message.maxSize=1024 --conf spark.yarn.maxAppAttempts=1 --conf spark.speculation=false --conf spark.kryoserializer.buffer.max=1024 --conf spark.executor.extraJavaOptions=-XX:+UseG1GC --conf spark.driver.extraJavaOptions=-XX:+UseG1GC --packages org.apache.spark:spark-avro_2.11:2.4.0 --jars s3://<s3-bucket>/jars/histogrammar-sparksql_2.11-1.0.20.jar,s3://<s3-bucket>/jars/histogrammar_2.11-1.0.20.jar --py-files s3://<s3-bucket>/anovos.zip s3://<s3-bucket>/main.py s3://<s3-bucket>/configs.yaml emr
    ```
    - Bootstrap Actions 
        - script location : specify the bootstrap_shell_script_s3_path/setup_on_aws_emr_5_30_and_above.sh

