## Introducing Anovos
Data Science teams spend up to 80% of their time on feature engineering and still end up building models with poor resilience. Anovos seeks to address both these issues (lack of modeler productivity and insufficient model resilience) by enabling data scientists to understand the stability properties of the data they work with and then creating a transformation methodology that allows the building of features anchored by stable data, which in turn produce resilient models that break less often when deployed. Unlike current feature engineering workflows, which are ad hoc, error-prone, and modeler-driven, Anovos seeks to inject process-driven efficiency into feature creation based on innovations in understanding the stability of data and how data items impact the features they anchor.

With Anovos, ML models will be more consistent, more accurate, and deliver results faster. The process of building models is more automated and procedural, saving time and decreasing cost.

## The Team Behind Anovos

The data scientists at Mobilewalla built Anovos, a team of highly talented and experienced data scientists who have years of experience in machine learning (ML) and AI and are applying ML techniques to some of the most extensive consumer data sets available. This experience has brought to light an internal need to create tools to simplify and speed up the feature engineering process, increasing efficiency. They've been able to replicate and now open source these tools, bringing our learnings to the community. The Mobilewalla Feature Mart currently offers teams supplemental data to make their ML models more accurate and predictive. Anovos, a set of open source libraries, enables them to take that data, enhancing their internal data sets and making their modeling more systematic and procedural, creating cost and time efficiencies, and building more predictive models.